Setup basic repo tooling (#3)
conan-io/conan-toolchains: README.md

# 🛠️ conan-toolchains

> This repository hosts **standalone Conan recipes** for toolchains and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository hosts **Conan recipes** for toolchains and
```

> This repository hosts **standalone Conan recipes** for toolchains and
> executables—managed separately from Conan Center Index. It includes compiler
> toolchain recipes (e.g., Emscripten SDK, embedded compilers, cross‑compilers)
> with independent release cycles and flexible maintenance scopes.

Reviewer: I would suggest a different phrasing
```suggestion
This repository contains Conan recipes for toolchains and command line utilities, for example the Emscripten SDK or other compilers. These recipes are maintained independently of Conan Center Index.
```

---

## 🌟 Why a separate repo?

- **Different cadence**: Toolchains evolve separately from libraries (e.g., new compiler versions, SDK upgrades, experimental features).
- **Greater flexibility**: Easier to test, modify, or share alternative toolchain recipes without touching Conan Center.
- **Isolation from libraries**: Keeps toolchains out of library dependencies, avoiding unintended conflicts.

---

## 🚀 Getting started

### Setup `conan-toolchains` as a [local recipe index](https://docs.conan.io/2/devops/devops_local_recipes_index.html#devops-local-recipes-index) repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/conan-io/conan-toolchains.git
conan remote add conan-toolchains ./conan-toolchains
```

### Setup `conan-toolchains` as a remote

This repository is under development now so there is currently no CI nor artifactory configured.

## Contributing

If you wish to contribute to **conan-toolchains**, follow these steps to clone the repository
and install the required development dependencies.

```
git clone git@github.com:conan-io/conan-toolchains.git
cd conan-toolchains

> pip install pre-commit

Reviewer: I think we should suggest users to use a virtual environment at some point before this

# 🛠️ conan-toolchains

This repository contains Conan recipes for toolchains and command line
utilities, for example the Emscripten SDK or other compilers. These recipes are
maintained independently of [Conan Center Index](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index)
with flexible maintenance scopes.

---

## 🌟 Why a separate repo?

A **centralized** toolchains repository provides a dedicated home for *SDKs*,
compilers, cross-compilers, and experimental toolchains all in one place. It's
a great fit for a wide range of users: beginners can easily install a toolchain
alongside Conan and quickly cross-compile a project, while advanced users can
integrate it into their workflow by adding it as a local recipe index and
tailoring recipes as needed. It also supports bleeding-edge or niche toolchains
that don't belong in the main index, offering maximum flexibility and
control.

---

## 🚀 Getting started

### Setup `conan-toolchains` as a [local recipe index](https://docs.conan.io/2/devops/devops_local_recipes_index.html#devops-local-recipes-index) repository

Before adding `conan-toolchains` ensure [conan](https://github.com/conan-io/conan) is installed and available in your path.

> Check conan [downloads](https://conan.io/downloads) page.

Reviewer: Link the https://docs.conan.io/2/installation.html better, say you can find instructions for installing there
